
Journey of Ray Tracing
Author: Alec Moore (alecm5)
Class: Introduction to Computer Graphics by Professor Schaeffer

  This ray tracer was a implementation of the book from the learning gathered from Ray Tracing in One Weekend by Peter Shirley. There was some reading of the PBRT (Physically Based Ray Tracing) book as well. There was also some exceptional learning done in class with Dr. Schaeffer. 

  The ray tracer was wrtten in C++ and was compiled with g++, the design of the code is quite similar to the book of Ray Tracing in One Weekend series. However, although it does follow some of the modeling there were significant portions of the code that I wrote in my own style and took the time to find the most optimal way of writing some of the classes. 

  The code is not always the most efficient, but I tried to improve sections as I wrote to the best of my ability, opting for -Ofast for the best compiled program speed I could achieve. So onto the code, and what it contains.

The configurble camera is located in camera.hpp, and the main class is currently in charge of updaing the camera for the given image. 
The camera class is also in charge of anti-aliasing the image with the addition of multiple samples per pixel.
For Ray/Sphere intersections, the ray.hpp and sphere.hpp files are used. Also important to note that hittable.hpp contains the hit logic for all geometry for the system.
Same as above, with the addition of the triangle.hpp file that does the fast triangle intersections algorithm by Tomas Möller and Ben Trumbore.
For texture loading we use the texture.hpp file, with this addition we have in an external folder the stb_image.h file that is used for loading the textures of different images and others of course onto the scene. 
This texturing can be applied to all supported geometries, and the textures can be of any type, as is base of the hittable classes.
The code can load triangle meshes, however there is some problems within the current implementation, it depends on the scene, but often there is problem with their lighting. The library used for these is the tiny_obj_loader.h file in external as well. 
The spatial subdivision acceleration structure is located in bounding_volume_hierarchies.hpp, and the code is currently in charge of the AABB class, which is used for the bounding volume hierarchies. Interval.hpp was written to simplify the Axis Aligned Bounding Boxes classes and usability. 
For specular, diffuse, and dielectric materials, the material.hpp file is used. The material class is in charge of the logic for the materials, and the scattering of the rays, this also includes the lighting class with the emitted functions. 

For additional features that were added to the ray tracer:
I added the Volumes Rendering located in volume.hpp, there was plan to add more than just the absorption class, but opted for just the one since it worked well and wanted to implement more outside of volumes.
Motion blur, defocus blue/depth of field are part of the camera class and implementations are very close to RTinaW.
Perlin noise was implementation in perlin.hpp, and has 3 different types of noise, turbulence, marble, and normal perlin.
Quads are in the quadrilaterals.hpp file, and are used for the quadrilateral geometry. Fun note is that in the making of fast triangles I accidentally made the quad with a logic error. However, instead of duplicating the code, opted for a style similar to RTinaW for the sake of easier use.
Parllelaization was implemented quite quickly with the standard library for C++ concurrency and threads. Taking the original idea of writing to standard out, but using string streams instead so that when the threads join back we can output the string streams in the correct order. 
Importance sampling is in the process of being implemented as of writing this, and making strides in the wrong direction!
Also not included in the components but were written in the codebase were quaternians and translations of objects. Translation was just adding an offset to objects so nothing special there, but the quaternians were quite challenging to get quite right, but I figured it out with some time. 





